[Music]
in a walled garden locked and abandoned
for a hundred years a dark secret stirs
[Music]
hi I'm Kate Morton author of the house
at Riverton which won the Richard and
Judy Summer read award last year and I'm
delighted to take this opportunity to
tell you a little bit about my new book
The Forgotten Garden
The Forgotten garden starts on the eve
of the first world war when a little
girl is found sitting atop a suitcase on
an empty Wharf a mysterious woman she
knows only as the author s has promised
to take care of her but the author s has
disappeared without a trace
almost a century later a young
Australian woman called cassandra comes
into an unexpected inheritance cliff
cottage and it's forgotten garden in the
grounds of the strange and beautiful
Blackhurst manor a notorious amongst the
Cornish locals for the secrets they hold
secrets about the doomed mount Trichet
family and their ward Eliza Makepeace a
writer of dark Victorian fairy tales but
it is a cliff cottage that Cassandra
will finally uncover the truth about the
family and solve the century-old mystery
of a little girl lost I absolutely loved
writing The Forgotten garden it was such
a pleasure to disappear inside my very
own cottage high on a Cornish cliff top
and to discover the secrets and
mysteries concealed in its hidden garden
locked and abandoned for a hundred years
I drew on a lot of personal inspiration
when I was writing The Forgotten garden
just like one of my characters on the
night of her 21st birthday my
grandmother found out she wasn't really
who she thought she was this secret so
affected her that she didn't tell
another soul until she was an old lady
and finally confided in her three
grown-up daughters I was always
fascinated by this story and I wondered
how a person might go about putting back
together the pieces of their life I was
also told lots of stories of family
members migrating to Australia from
Europe one day as I listened to such
stories I had an image from nowhere of a
little girl sitting atop a small white
suitcase on a
deserted Wharf who was she where had she
come from and why was she alone and what
future awaited her if she couldn't
remember any of these things and if no
one from her past came looking for her I
even wrote my own house into the
forgotten garden the house that I live
in is one that I found myself bidding
for at auction quite unexpectedly there
was something about the tumbledown
weatherboard house that I found
compulsive tucked into the Paddington
hillside hunkering down behind the huge
antique center on the ridge the house
looked like the sort of place that had
witnessed a lot of Secrets it was also
the perfect location for my character a
second-hand dealer with a lot of secrets
and mysteries of her own to live along
with such personal inspiration I
couldn't help but draw on a few of my
favorite things there's an English
country estate called Blackhurst darker
than Riverton perched on a cliff top on
the Cornish coast there's an abandoned
cottage with a checkered past and
there's a hidden garden sealed up and
forgotten for almost a hundred years all
the ingredients to keep you feverishly
turning pages long after the lights
should be out I hope you enjoy getting
lost in the Forgotten garden
The Forgotten garden the stunning new
novel by best-selling author Kate Morton
[Music]